Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




  Diyneco — Operations Runbooks
    Oct 8, 2026       · ​@Profy D Keakile

  These runbooks tell the Diyneco team how to deploy, watch and recover the platform, and
  how to handle the hotel-side situations that will happen in the first months: a lost tablet, a
  bad Wi-Fi night, a till that does not balance. Each runbook names its trigger, its owner and
  its steps.


  Environments and release pipeline
  Three fully separate environments, each with its own Supabase project, secrets and app
  builds; nothing is shared between them.


    Environment                 Purpose               Data               Deploys            Who has
                                                                                            access

    Development                 Local work and        Seed data only     On every push to   Engineers
                                feature branches                         a branch
                                                                         (preview)

    Staging                     Release               Seed + load-       On merge to        Engineers, QA,
                                candidates, pen       test data, never   main ,             pilot hotel
                                tests, hotel pilots   production data    automatically      testers
                                on test devices

    Production                  Live hotels           Real data          Manual             Release
                                                                         promotion of a     managers;
                                                                         tested staging     read-only for
                                                                         build              others


  Pipeline, from merge to production

   1. Merge to main after review and all security gates pass.
   2. CI builds the backend container, the three web apps and an OpenAPI client package;
      tags them with the commit hash.
   3. Alembic migrations run against staging, then the backend rolls out to staging.
   4. End-to-end suite runs on staging, including the spec test case 70 and the tenant
      isolation suite.




                                                                                                        Page 1 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




   5. A release manager promotes the same artefacts to production: migrations first (they
      are always backward compatible), then a rolling backend deploy with health checks,
       then web apps.
   6. Mobile apps ship through EAS: internal track → staging testers → production. Over-the-
       air updates are used only for JavaScript fixes that need no native change, and the
       guest app pins to a minimum API version.
   7. If health checks or error rates fail within 15 minutes, roll back the backend to the
      previous image. Migrations are not rolled back; the expand-contract rule means the old
      code still works with the new schema.

  Release windows: production deploys happen Tuesday to Thursday, 10:00–15:00 South
  African time, avoiding hotel breakfast and dinner rushes. Emergency fixes follow the
  incident process.


  Configuration and secrets
  All configuration comes from environment variables; secrets come from the hosting
  provider's secret manager and never sit in the repository. The backend refuses to start if a
  required variable is missing.

  Backend and worker .env.example (committed with placeholder values only)

     # Runtime
     APP_ENV=development                  # development | staging | production
     API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000
     CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=http://localhost:3001,http://localhost:3002,http://local
     host:3003
     LOG_LEVEL=info


     # Database (Supabase Postgres). API and worker use their own least-privilege
     roles.
     DATABASE_URL=postgresql+asyncpg://diyneco_api:CHANGE_ME@localhost:5432/diynec
     o
     WORKER_DATABASE_URL=postgresql+asyncpg://diyneco_worker:CHANGE_ME@localhost:5
     432/diyneco
     MIGRATIONS_DATABASE_URL=postgresql+psycopg://diyneco_owner:CHANGE_ME@localhos
     t:5432/diyneco


     # Supabase (backend only; never in any frontend build)
     SUPABASE_URL=https://YOUR-PROJECT.supabase.co
     SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=CHANGE_ME



                                                                                            Page 2 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




     STORAGE_BUCKET_ASSETS=hotel-assets
     STORAGE_BUCKET_INVOICES=invoices


     # Auth
     JWT_SIGNING_KEYS_JSON=CHANGE_ME           # JWK set: current + previous Ed25519
     keys with kid
     JWT_ACTIVE_KID=CHANGE_ME
     PAIRING_CODE_PEPPER=CHANGE_ME
     KMS_MASTER_KEY_ID=CHANGE_ME               # wraps per-hotel data keys


     # Realtime and jobs
     REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379/0        # pub/sub fan-out and rate limits;
     optional in development


     # Email
     EMAIL_PROVIDER=console               # console | smtp | provider name
     EMAIL_PROVIDER_KEY=CHANGE_ME
     EMAIL_FROM="Diyneco <no-reply@diyneco.com>"


     # Monitoring
     SENTRY_DSN=


  Frontend variables are public by nature and hold no secrets:
  NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL , NEXT_PUBLIC_WS_URL and NEXT_PUBLIC_ENV for web apps;
   EXPO_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL , EXPO_PUBLIC_WS_URL and EXPO_PUBLIC_CERT_PINS for
  mobile apps. A CI check fails any frontend build that references
  SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY , JWT_ or DATABASE_URL .

  Rotation: JWT keys every 90 days (add new key, switch JWT_ACTIVE_KID , remove the old
  key after 24 hours); database role passwords every 90 days; everything immediately when
  someone with access leaves.


  Service levels and operational alerts
  The internal targets below are proposals for v1; customer-facing SLA terms should be set
  only after a few months of measured production data.


    Objective                   Target                       Measured by

    API availability            99.9% per month (about 43    Synthetic checks every minute
                                minutes of downtime)         from two regions



                                                                                       Page 3 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




    Objective                        Target                          Measured by

    Order placed → visible           95% within 2 seconds            Timestamp in event vs. client
    on kitchen board                                                 receipt

    API latency                      p95 under 300 ms for guest,     Server metrics
                                     kitchen and delivery
                                     endpoints

    Realtime delivery                99% of events delivered         Outbox published_at minus
                                     within 2 seconds of commit          created_at

    Data durability                  Recovery point under 5          Restore drills
                                     minutes; recovery time under
                                     4 hours


  Operational alerts


    Signal                      Threshold                     Severity      First action

    API 5xx rate                Above 1% for 5 minutes        Critical      Incident runbook; check
                                                                            last deploy, roll back if
                                                                            related

    API p95 latency             Above 1 s for 10 minutes      High          Check database load and
                                                                            slow queries

    Synthetic check             2 consecutive failures from   Critical      Incident runbook
    failing                     both regions

    Outbox backlog              Oldest unpublished event      High          Check worker and Redis;
                                older than 30 s                             restart worker

    WebSocket                   Drop of more than 30% in 5    High          Check gateway and load
    connections                 minutes                                     balancer

    Database CPU or             Above 80% for 10 minutes      High          Identify top queries; scale
    connections                                                             if sustained

    Database                    Above 60 s                    Medium        Reports may lag; check
    replication lag                                                         replica

    Email provider              Above 5% of sends in 30       Medium        Check provider status;
    errors                      minutes                                     queue retries




                                                                                                     Page 4 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




    Signal                      Threshold                     Severity    First action

    Backup job                  Missed or failed              High        Backup runbook

    Hotel devices               More than 50% of a hotel's    Medium      Hotel Wi-Fi runbook;
    offline                     tablets offline for 10                    contact the hotel
                                minutes

    Certificate expiry          Under 21 days                 Medium      Renew




  Runbook: incident response
  Trigger: a Critical or High alert, a hotel reporting that ordering, kitchen, payments or
  checkout do not work, or any suspected security event. Owner: on-call engineer, who
  becomes incident lead until handing over.

  Severity levels


    Level         Meaning                           Example                              Update
                                                                                         cadence

    SEV1          Platform down or money or data    API unreachable; wrong totals;       Every 30
                  at risk for many hotels           cross-tenant exposure                minutes

    SEV2          A core flow broken for some       Kitchen board not updating;          Every hour
                  hotels, or degraded for all       checkout failing at one hotel

    SEV3          Minor or single-feature issue     Emails delayed; one report           Daily
                  with a workaround                 wrong


  Steps

   1. Acknowledge the alert within 5 minutes (SEV1) or 15 minutes (SEV2). Open an incident
      channel and an incident record with start time.
   2. Assess scope: which hotels, which interfaces, since when. Check the last deploy,
      status pages for Supabase, hosting, email and the CDN.
   3. Declare severity and name the incident lead and a communications person. For SEV1,
       page a second engineer.
   4. Stabilise before fixing: roll back the last deploy if it correlates; disable a feature flag;
       scale the database; pause the outbox worker if it is sending bad events. Never edit
       financial rows by hand.


                                                                                                    Page 5 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




   5. Communicate to affected hotels through the in-app banner and email using the
       templates below. Hotels can always fall back to taking orders by phone and recording
       charges on the folio once the system is back.
   6. Resolve and confirm with synthetic checks and with at least one affected hotel.
   7. Reconcile if any money flow was affected: run the folio balance check (sum of entries
       vs. reported totals) for affected hotels and the date range; flag any order placed but
       not posted, or payment recorded twice.
   8. Review within 5 business days for SEV1 and SEV2: timeline, cause, what detected it,
       what slowed the fix, and dated actions. Blameless format.

  Hotel message template (initial)

     Subject: Diyneco service issue – [orders | kitchen display | payments |
     checkout]


     We are aware that [what is not working] since [time]. Your data is safe.
     While we fix this, please [take room-service orders by phone / record
     payments on paper
     with the terminal slip / delay non-urgent checkouts].
     Next update by [time]. Contact: support@diyneco.com


  If the incident may involve personal data, start the data breach runbook in parallel; do not
  wait for the incident to close.


  Runbook: personal data breach
  Trigger: any reasonable grounds to believe personal information has been accessed or
  acquired by someone unauthorised: a cross-tenant exposure, a leaked credential or
  backup, a lost unrevoked staff device with an open session, or a report from a hotel or
  researcher. Owner: Diyneco Information Officer, with the incident lead.

  POPIA section 22 requires the responsible party (the hotel, for guest data) to notify the
  Information Regulator and affected people as soon as reasonably possible. Diyneco's job
  as operator is to tell each affected hotel fast and give them what they need to notify.
  Confirm current Regulator procedures and forms with legal counsel when this runbook is
  used.

   1. Contain (first hour): revoke exposed credentials, sessions, API keys or device
      credentials; close the hole (roll back, block the endpoint, rotate keys); preserve logs
       and evidence. Do not delete logs.



                                                                                           Page 6 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




   2. Assess (within 24 hours): what data, whose, how many people, which hotels, time
      window, whether data was encrypted, and whether misuse is likely. Use audit_logs ,
       API logs and storage access logs.
   3. Notify hotels within 24 hours of confirming a compromise: affected hotel owners and
       their Information Officers by email and phone, with the facts known so far, the data
       categories, the number of guests, the containment steps and a named contact.
   4. Support the hotel's notifications: provide per-hotel lists of affected guests (through
      the hotel's own export), a draft guest notice, and a factual summary suitable for the
       Regulator notification. The hotel sends its notices; Diyneco does not contact guests
       directly unless the hotel asks in writing.
   5. Notify for Diyneco's own data: if Diyneco's own customer data (hotel owner or staff
       accounts) is affected, Diyneco as responsible party notifies the Regulator and those
       people itself.
   6. Record the breach in the breach register: date found, date contained, scope,
       notifications sent with dates, and remediation.
   7. Review and fix root causes; add a regression test for the specific exposure.

  Guest notice must include (as POPIA expects): what happened, the possible
  consequences, what the hotel and Diyneco have done, what the guest can do to protect
  themselves, and who to contact. If the identity of the unauthorised person is known,
  include it.


  Runbook: backup and restore
  What is backed up: the production database (daily snapshots plus point-in-time recovery,
  which is a paid Supabase add-on; confirm the retention window on the chosen plan),
  storage buckets (daily copy to a second, separately keyed bucket in another region),
  secrets and key material (in the key management service, with its own backup). Tablets
  hold nothing that needs backing up, so a dead tablet loses no data.

  Targets: recovery point under 5 minutes; recovery time under 4 hours for the full platform.

  Restore a mistake for one hotel (for example, a bulk menu import that went wrong).
  Financial tables are never restored this way, because append-only entries are corrected
  with new entries, not by rewinding.

   1. Restore point-in-time to a new, isolated database at a moment before the mistake.
   2. Export only the affected configuration rows for that hotel ( WHERE hotel_id = ... ).




                                                                                          Page 7 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




   3. Apply them to production through the API or a reviewed script that writes audit
      entries.
   4. Destroy the temporary database the same day.

  Restore the whole platform (database lost or corrupted):

   1. Declare SEV1 and put all apps into maintenance mode (API returns 503
       SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE ; tablets show a paused screen).
   2. Restore point-in-time to the latest consistent moment into a new database.
   3. Run integrity checks: row counts against the last metrics snapshot; every folio balance
      equals the sum of its entries; no orders posted without folio entries; invoice sequences
      have no gaps.
   4. Point the API at the restored database, rotate database credentials, lift maintenance
       mode.
   5. Ask hotels to compare their last recorded payments and checkouts with paper records
      from the outage window, and record any missing ones through the normal API.

  Restore drill: quarterly, from a real production backup restored into an isolated, access-
  controlled restore environment (never staging), timed against the 4-hour target and
  destroyed the same day. Results go in the drill log. A failed drill is a SEV2.


  Runbook: hotel onboarding and go-live
  Trigger: a hotel signs up. Owner: Diyneco onboarding lead, with the hotel's General
  Manager.

  Before approval (Diyneco)

       Confirm the business is real: company registration or trading name, address, a named
       owner who answered a call.
       Confirm the plan and room count; set the subscription.
       Check the Data Processing Agreement was accepted.
       Approve the hotel in the admin panel.

  Setup (hotel, guided by the wizard; Diyneco assists)

       Hotel profile, logo, address, contacts.
       Settings: VAT registration and number, room-charge auto-approve limit, room-service
       fee, checkout override policy, invoice prefix, retention period.
       Room types and rates; rooms by range or CSV; check numbers and floors on screen.



                                                                                         Page 8 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




       Kitchen stations (Main Kitchen, Bar, Dessert Station, Pool Bar as needed).
       Menu: categories, schedules (breakfast, lunch, dinner hours), items with station, price,
       allergens and photos.
       Staff invitations by role; each accepts and sets a password and PIN; owners, admins,
       GMs and finance enrol MFA.
       Devices: pair one tablet per room (tablet provisioning runbook) and each kitchen
       display.

  Go-live test, on site, with real devices (about 45 minutes)

       Check in a test guest to a real room.
       Order from that room's tablet; confirm it reaches the right station(s) within 2 seconds.
       Kitchen accepts, prepares, marks ready; room service claims, picks up, delivers.
       Pay at the door with the hotel's real terminal for more than the amount; confirm the tip
       prompt and amounts on all screens.
       Place one order above the approval limit; approve it as a manager.
       Check out with PIN; open the bill; confirm VAT label and numbering are right.
       Confirm the tablet returns to the welcome screen and shows no history.
       Void the test: the test stay is marked as a training stay so it is excluded from reports
       (the folio is kept, as always).

  First week: daily check-in call with the GM; review the daily close report together on day 1
  and day 7; collect issues in the support queue.


  Runbook: tablet provisioning, replacement and loss
  Owner: hotel IT or the GM, with Diyneco support on call.

  Provision a new guest tablet

   1. Factory-reset the tablet; connect it to the hotel's staff Wi-Fi (not the guest network).
   2. Install the Diyneco Guest app from the managed store or the build link support
       provides. In v1.1, enrol it in the MDM instead, which installs the app and applies the
       kiosk policy.
   3. In the Merchant app: Devices → Pair a guest tablet → choose the room → Generate
       pairing code. The code is valid for 15 minutes.
   4. On the tablet, enter the code or scan the QR. The tablet shows the hotel name and
      room number. Check they are right before mounting it.



                                                                                             Page 9 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




   5. Turn on screen pinning with the staff exit PIN; disable notifications, USB debugging and
       the status bar.
   6. Label the back of the tablet with its device label (e.g. DY-259-01).
   7. Confirm it appears as Online in the Devices list.

  Replace a broken tablet: pair the replacement to the same room; the old device's binding
  ends automatically and its credential stops working. No data moves, because none lives
  on the tablet.

  Tablet missing or stolen

   1. In Devices, select it → Unpair (step-up required). Its credential is revoked immediately.
   2. Note the time in the incident log; no guest data is at risk because the tablet holds only
      the active stay's view, but log it as a security event.
   3. Pair a replacement as above.

  Tablet showing the wrong room or a previous guest's data: lock it from the Merchant app
  straight away, then Reset. If the previous guest's orders appeared after a checkout, treat
  it as a possible breach and open the data breach runbook.

  Kitchen display: same flow, choosing Kitchen display and its stations. Staff sign in with
  their own PIN each shift.


  Runbook: hotel Wi-Fi or realtime outage
  Trigger: a hotel reports tablets offline or orders not reaching the kitchen, or the "hotel
  devices offline" alert fires. Owner: Diyneco support, with the hotel's duty manager.

  Decide where the problem is


    Symptom                        Likely cause                  Check

    One hotel's tablets offline,   Hotel Wi-Fi, router, power,   Devices list last_seen_at ; ask
    other hotels fine              or load shedding              whether the hotel has power
                                                                 and internet

    All hotels' realtime slow,     WebSocket gateway or          Gateway metrics; outbox
    REST fine                      Redis                         backlog alert

    Everything failing             Platform outage               Incident runbook, SEV1




                                                                                            Page 10 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




    Symptom                        Likely cause                  Check

    Some rooms offline,            Weak Wi-Fi coverage on        Group offline devices by floor
    others fine                    those floors


  What keeps working during a hotel's outage: the tablet shows an offline banner and
  blocks new orders (no orders are queued on the device, so nothing duplicates later). The
  kitchen display shows a reconnecting banner and keeps the last board on screen. Room-
  service phones on mobile data keep working and still see their assigned deliveries.

  Fallback at the hotel

   1. Guests order by phone to reception.
   2. Reception enters each phone order in the Merchant app on mobile data (Orders →
       New order for room), so it still reaches the kitchen and the folio; or writes it on paper if
       the Merchant app is also offline.
   3. Card payments are taken on the terminal as usual; staff keep the slip with the room
       number.
   4. When service returns, reception enters paper orders and payments through the
      Merchant app. Each needs a reason ("Wi-Fi outage 19:10–20:05") and is flagged on the
      daily close report.

  During load shedding: hotels with backup power should put the router, access points and
  kitchen display on it. The daily close report shows outage windows from device
  heartbeats so finance can match paper slips.


  Runbook: daily close and payment discrepancies
  Trigger: every morning, and whenever the daily close report shows a flag. Owner: the
  hotel's Finance Manager; Diyneco support helps if the cause looks like a system fault.

  Daily close (about 15 minutes)

   1. Open yesterday's daily close report (emailed at 06:00, also in Reports).
   2. Enter the card terminal's batch total for the business day. The report compares it with
      the card payments recorded in Diyneco, overall and per staff member.
   3. Count cash and enter it; compare with cash payments recorded.
   4. Review every flag: tip above the threshold, adjustments, discounts, cancellations after
      acceptance, checkout overrides, open balances on checked-out stays, paper entries
       made after an outage.



                                                                                             Page 11 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




   5. Mark the day reviewed. The review, and who did it, is written to the audit log.

  When card totals do not match


    Difference                     Common cause                  Action

    Terminal higher than           A payment taken on the        Find the slip; record the
    Diyneco                        terminal but not recorded     payment with its terminal
                                   (outage, staff forgot)        reference and reason

    Diyneco higher than            A payment recorded but the    Check the terminal reference
    terminal                       terminal transaction          against the terminal report; if it
                                   declined or was voided        does not exist, raise an
                                                                 adjustment to reverse it (two-
                                                                 person approval) and speak to
                                                                 the staff member

    Difference equals a tip        Tip recorded in Diyneco but   Compare amount_received
                                   staff keyed only the bill     with the terminal slip; correct
                                   amount on the terminal, or    with an approved adjustment
                                   the reverse

    Repeated differences for       Process gap or possible       Hotel management follows its
    one staff member               theft                         own HR process; Diyneco
                                                                 provides the audit trail and
                                                                 payment history for that staff
                                                                 member


  Diyneco support never edits a hotel's financial records. Every correction is made by hotel
  staff through approved adjustments, so the trail shows who corrected what and why.


  Runbook: tenant suspension, offboarding and data requests
  Suspend a hotel (non-payment past the grace period, abuse, or the owner's request).
  Owner: Platform Super Admin.

   1. Confirm the reason and that the owner was warned at least 7 days earlier, unless it is
       abuse or a security risk.
   2. Admin panel → hotel → Suspend, with reason (step-up required).
   3. Effect: tablets show "service unavailable"; staff can sign in read-only to export data
       and close open stays' bills; no new orders or check-ins. Audit entry written.



                                                                                               Page 12 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




   4. Reactivation restores everything; no data is lost by suspension.

  Offboard a hotel (contract ended). Owner: Platform Super Admin with a second admin
  approving.

   1. Give the owner 30 days' read-only access and a full export: rooms, menu, stays, folios,
      invoices (PDF), payments, audit log, as CSV and PDF in one archive.
   2. Revoke all devices, API keys and webhooks; deactivate staff memberships.
   3. After 30 days, anonymise guest personal data per pii_columns . Keep invoices, folio
       entries and payments for the tax retention period, then archive them encrypted.
   4. Mark the hotel closed . Record the offboarding in the audit log and the customer file.

  Guest data request received by Diyneco (a guest writes to Diyneco directly). Owner:
  Information Officer.

   1. Diyneco is the operator, so it does not answer the request itself. Reply to the guest
      within 5 business days saying the hotel holds their data and that the request has been
      passed on.
   2. Forward the request to the hotel's owner and Information Officer, and offer help.
   3. The hotel uses Guests → Export or Anonymise ( privacy.manage , step-up).
      Anonymisation keeps financial amounts and invoice numbers, as the law requires.

  Law-enforcement or legal request for data: forward to legal counsel the same day.
  Diyneco discloses only what a valid legal instrument requires, tells the affected hotel
  unless legally prohibited, and records the request and the response.


  Release checklist and on-call
  Before promoting a release to production

       All pipeline gates green, including tenant isolation and spec test case 70 on staging.
       Migrations reviewed: backward compatible, lock_timeout set, indexes built
       concurrently, RLS and append-only rules present for new tables.
       New permissions added to the catalogue and assigned to the right system roles.
       New endpoints listed in the API spec with permission, idempotency and step-up
       marked.
       Feature flags default off for anything a hotel must opt into.
       Release notes written for hotels if anything they see changes.
       Rollback plan stated (previous image tag).



                                                                                           Page 13 of 14
Diyneco — Operations Runbooks




       Inside the release window (Tue–Thu, 10:00–15:00 SAST), or approved as an emergency
       fix.

  After promoting

       Health checks and synthetic checks green for 15 minutes.
       Error rate and p95 latency at or below the previous release.
       One real order placed and closed on the Diyneco test hotel in production.

  On-call


    Item                        Rule

    Rotation                    Weekly, one primary and one secondary engineer;
                                hand-over Monday 10:00 SAST with open issues
                                reviewed

    Response                    Critical: acknowledge in 5 minutes, any hour. High:
                                30 minutes in business hours (07:00–22:00 SAST,
                                matching hotel service hours), next morning
                                otherwise

    Escalation                  Primary → secondary after 10 minutes →
                                engineering lead after 20 minutes

    Tools                       Pager app, incident channel, read-only production
                                dashboards; write access to production only
                                through the deploy pipeline or a recorded break-
                                glass procedure

    Break-glass                 Time-limited elevated access with a ticket
                                reference, a second person informed, every
                                command logged, and an incident review
                                afterwards

    Support hours for hotels    Phone and chat 07:00–22:00 SAST every day; SEV1
                                any hour




                                                                                      Page 14 of 14
